queues: new feature - explicit acknowledgement (#7796)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/queues/learning/batching-retries.md

---
title: Batching and Retries

> pcx_content_type: reference

Author: Is `concept` right here? I want to keep the ToC on the right, so users can navigate between headers more readily.

When determining what size and timeout settings to configure, you will want to take into account latency (how long can you wait to receive messages?), overall batch size (when writing to external systems), and cost (fewer-but-larger batches). 

## Explicit acknowledgement

You can acknowledge individual messages with a batch by explicitly acknowledging each message as it is processed. Messages that are explicitly acknowledged will not be re-delivered, even if your queue consumer fails on a subsequent message and/or fails to return successfully when processing a batch.

> * Each message can be acknowledged as you process it within a batch, and avoids the entire batch from being re-delivered if your consumer throws an error during batch processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Each message can be acknowledged as you process it within a batch. This prevents the entire batch from being re-delivered if your consumer Worker throws an error during batch processing.
```
I was confused at the structure of this original sentence but not sure if I misunderstood or this edit makes it clearer

* It can be particularly useful when you are calling external APIs, writing messages to a database, or otherwise performing non-idempotent (state changing) actions on individual messages.

To explicitly acknowledge a message as delivered, call the `.ack()` method on the message. 

```ts
export default {
  async queue(batch: MessageBatch, env: Env, ctx: ExecutionContext) {
    for (const msg of batch.messages) {

      // TODO: do something with the message
      // Explicitly acknowledge the message as delivered
      msg.ack()

    }
  },
};
```

You can also call `.retry()` to explicitly force a message to be re-delivered in a subsequent batch: what is often referred to as "negative acknowledgement". This can be particularly useful when you want process the rest of the messages in that batch without throwing an error that would force the entire batch to be re-delivered.

```ts
export default {
  async queue(batch: MessageBatch, env: Env, ctx: ExecutionContext) {
    for (const msg of batch.messages) {

      // TODO: do something with the message that fails
      msg.retry()

    }
  },
};
```

> You can also acknowledge or negatively acknowledge messages at a batch level with `.ackAll()` and `.retryAll()`. Calling `.ackAll()` on the batch of messages (`MessageBatch`) delivered to your consumer has the same behaviour as a consumer that successfully returns (does not throw an error).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also acknowledge or negatively acknowledge messages at a batch level with `.ackAll()` and `.retryAll()`. Calling `.ackAll()` on the batch of messages (`MessageBatch`) delivered to your consumer Worker has the same behaviour as a consumer Worker that successfully returns (does not throw an error).
```

Note that calls to `.ack()`, `.retry()` and their `.ackAll()` / `.retryAll` equivalents follow the below precedence rules:

* If you call `.ack()` on a message, subsequent calls to `.ack()` or `.retry()` are silently ignored.
* If you call `.retry()` on a message and then call `.ack()`: the `.ack()` is ignored. The first method call wins in all cases.

> * If you call either `.ack()` or `.retry()` on a single message, and then either/any of `.ackAll()` or `.retryAll()` on the batch, the call on the single message takes precedence. That is, the batch-level call does _not_ apply to that message (or messages, if multiple calls were made).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you call either `.ack()` or `.retry()` on a single message, and then either/any of `.ackAll()` or `.retryAll()` on the batch, the call on the single message takes precedence. That is, the batch-level call does not apply to that message (or messages, if multiple calls were made).
```
Changing because italics are reserved for dropdown menu items in the dash.

## Explicit acknowlegment

You can acknowledge individual messages with a batch by explicitly acknowledging each message as it is processed. Messages that are explicitly acknowledged will not be re-delivered, even if your queue consumer fails on a subsequent message and/or fails to return successfully when processing a batch.

* Each message can be acknowledged as you process it within a batch, and avoids the entire batch from being re-delivered if your consumer throws an error during batch processing.
* It can be particularly useful when you are calling external APIs, writing messages to a database, or otherwise performing non-idempotent actions on individual messages.

To explicitly acknowledge a message as delivered, call the `.ack()` method on the message. 

```ts
export default {
  async queue(batch: MessageBatch, env: Env, ctx: ExecutionContext) {
    for (const msg of batch.messages) {

    // TODO: do something with the message
    // Explicitly acknowledge the message as delivered

>     msg.ack()

Reviewer 2: Missing a level of indentation?

    }
  },
};
```

You can also call `.retry()` to explicitly force a message to be re-delivered in a subsequent batch. This can be particularly useful when you want process the rest of the messages in that batch without throwing an error that would force the entire batch to be re-delivered.

```ts
export default {
  async queue(batch: MessageBatch, env: Env, ctx: ExecutionContext) {
    for (const msg of batch.messages) {

    // TODO: do something with the message that fails
    msg.retry()

    }
  },
};
```

Notes:

* If you call `.ack()` on a message, subsequent calls to `.ack()` or `.retry()` are silently ignored. The same applies if you call `.retry()` on a message and then call `.ack()`: the `.ack()` is ignored. The first method call wins in all cases.
* Although you can call `.ackAll()` on the batch of messages (`MessageBatch`) delivered to your consumer, this is the same as a consumer that successfully returns (does not throw an error).

> 

Reviewer 3: Is it too much to overview the interaction between a batch level ack/nack + individual message ack/nack (`ack` or `retry` on a message wins over `ackAll` / `retryAll` on the batch?

Author: No, good catch - let me add that too.

```ts
export default {
  async queue(batch: MessageBatch, env: Env, ctx: ExecutionContext) {
    for (const msg of batch.messages) {

      // TODO: do something with the message that fails
      msg.retry()

    }
  },
};
```
You can also acknowledge or negatively acknowledge messages at a batch level with `.ackAll()` and `.retryAll()`. Calling `.ackAll()` on the batch of messages (`MessageBatch`) delivered to your consumer has the same behaviour as a consumer that successfully returns (does not throw an error).

Note that calls to `.ack()`, `.retry()` and their `.ackAll()` / `.retryAll` equivalents follow the below precedence rules:

* If you call `.ack()` on a message, subsequent calls to `.ack()` or `.retry()` are silently ignored.
* If you call `.retry()` on a message and then call `.ack()`: the `.ack()` is ignored. The first method call wins in all cases.
* If you call either `.ack()` or `.retry()` on a single message, and then either/any of `.ackAll()` or `.retryAll()` on the batch, the call on the single message takes precedence. That is, the batch-level call does _not_ apply to that message (or messages, if multiple calls were made).

> * Although you can call `.ackAll()` o 

Reviewer 3: this sentence trails off

Author: Gah. Fixing. Thanks for catching!

{{</Aside>}}

> When a single message within a batch fails to be delivered, the entire batch is retried, unless you have [explicitly acknowledged](#explicit-acknowlegment) a message (or messages) within that batch. For example, if a batch of 10 messages is delivered, but the 8th message fails to be delivered, all 10 messages will be retried and thus re-delivered to your consumer in full.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a single message within a batch fails to be delivered, the entire batch is retried, unless you have [explicitly acknowledged](#explicit-acknowlegment) a message (or messages) within that batch. For example, if a batch of 10 messages is delivered, but the 8th message fails to be delivered, all 10 messages will be retried and thus redelivered to your consumer in full.
```
